

				Program 1
				  CS320

Reread the Policy statement at the beginning of the class notes; you MUST
do your own work on all assignments and programs.  The file ~cs320/calendar will
contain all published deadlines, including occasional extra credit deadlines.

HOW TO SET UP:
While you might have a C compiler on your home machine, I recommend that
you do all your work on edoras; different operating systems have different
system calls, and you really don't want to discover that edoras is different
at the last moment.  So, first make the proper directory to hold your .c file:

edoras% mkdir ~/One

For the purposes of this discussion, '~' means "the home directory of the
cssc0nnn edoras account assigned to you for this class"; you may own other
edoras accounts, but you must use this cssc account for your CS320 projects.
Similarly, ~cs320 resolves to "the home directory of the cs320 repository".

WHAT TO PROGRAM:
Write a C program (stored in ~/One/p1.c) that will read data from standard
input one character at a time and output the results to standard output.
Roughly, your program should mostly copy the input stream to the output
stream, but it should delete all non-ASCII characters, change the case
of alphabetic characters, 'fold' long lines, and make browser-friendly
adjustments to the characters _, /, :, ?, &, and space.
Specifically, for each character you read, do one of the following 5 things:

1) Replace each of the characters '_', '/', ':', '?', '&', and ' ' (the
   space character) with a three-character sequence, consisting of a '%'
   character followed by the two hexadecimal digits corresponding to the
   character's ASCII code.  These codes can be found by typing "man ascii"
   on edoras, or at http://www.physics.udel.edu/~watson/scen103/ascii.html
   (most of the characters that need replacements are in the pink column).
   If you have a copy of the Foster "C By Discovery" text (highly recommended,
   and dirt cheap if you buy an older edition), Appendix-I also lists the ASCII
   character set, but basically, here are the changes:

'_' becomes '%5F'
'?' becomes '%3F'
':' becomes '%3A'
'/' becomes '%2F'
'&' becomes '%26'
' ' becomes '%20'

That is, if the above substitutions were made on an input line of:
google.COM/search?client=SuSE&q=AD.com:Some Pat_tern
...it would be transformed into:
google.COM%2Fsearch%3Fclient=SuSE%26q=AD.com%3ASome%20Pat%5Ftern

2) Interchange the case of the alphabetic letters; that is, if you encounter
an 'A', print out an 'a' instead, 'B' becomes 'b', etc. -- and likewise,
'a' becomes 'A', ... 'z' becomes 'Z'. So, (ignoring rule 5 below for the moment)
google.COM/search?client=SuSE&q=AD.com:Some Pat_tern
...will actually be changed by your program into:
GOOGLE.com%2FSEARCH%3FCLIENT=sUse%26Q=ad.COM%3AsOME%20pAT%5FTERN
(note that we are not applying steps 1) and 2) sequentially -- after inserting
%2F, it should NOT subsequently become %2f).

3) delete all non-ASCII characters (those with character codes 128 through 255;
   that is, read it in, but then don't print it if it is not valid ASCII).

4) Any other character not mentioned above (such as digits, '+', control
   characters, or whatever) is simply printed verbatim.

5) In addition to the above changes, do not let any line get longer than 20
   printable characters; that is, if you've printed 20 characters since the
   last newline, insert an extra newline into the output, so that the next
   character will be printed in column 1 again.  [Note that this is 'folding',
   not 'truncating' -- characters after the 20th character are still printed,
   but one line lower down.]  The example shown in rule 2 should really produce:

GOOGLE.com%2FSEARCH%
3FCLIENT=sUse%26Q=ad
.COM%3AsOME%20pAT%5F
TERN

[Note that the "%3F" was one of the things that had a newline inserted in it;
I recommend first ignoring this complication, and then making this last little
tweak after everything else works right.]

Your main program should return a value when it finishes.  Return one (1) if the
output was unchanged from the input that was read in, and return zero (0) if you
made at least one change (either by removing non-ASCII characters, expanding the
special web characters, inserting an extra newline, or changing case).

Note that this is consistent with the paradigm used in UNIX: zero is returned
when we have a "normal" exit, allowing the program to be used in another way:
we could ignore the output of the program and instead just look at the return
status, giving us a way to test for the presense of input that had to be
'massaged'.

Note: Do not confuse the value returned (an integer which you designate) with
the 'side effects' of the program (that is, the new output that you print).
(The second panel of Page 15 of the lecture notes illustrates the values
that the program 'grep' returns, for example.)

GRADING CONSIDERATIONS:
This is the only C program written for this class in which it is acceptable to
code one monolithic main() function.  All further C programs should use a
modular design.  The input stream must be handled on a one-character-at-a-time
basis; do not use arrays!  (There is simply no need to store reams of data;
for each character read in, you'll print out zero, one, or three characters,
and then move on.)

Your program will be checked against public test data (e.g., ~cs320/Data1/input1).
You can examine the non-printable characters in any file from within vi via:
:set list
(and you can retreat from this mode with :set nolist).  Page 24 of the lecture
notes attempts to show you what happens within vi.
edoras% cat -vt ~cs320/Data1/input1
...will also make the control characters visible as the file is sent
to your screen (non-ASCII characters will have 'M-' prepended to them,
and control characters will have a '^' in front of them).

The following guidelines apply to all future programs and scripts written for
this class.

DO NOT PRINT EXTRANEOUS PROMPTS or other messages; do not add extraneous
headers to your output.  (Most UNIX functions avoid this sort of gingerbread,
since it would interfere with the utility's usefulness within a pipeline.)
Instead, make sure you follow the programming specifications exactly.

Document your program; the leading comments should indicate: CS320, the author's
name, the date created, the purpose of the program, and instructor name.
Explain any 'magic constants' that you use, and generally give the reader
useful pointers regarding the workings of your algorithm and program.
If the program design specifications allow you to choose different strategies,
make sure you document your decisions.

The quality of your comments will influence a significant part of
your grade.  Quantity is not quality, though, so use discretion.
Over-documenting can hide important information, which may be little
better than having no documentation at all.

If your program does not work correctly in all cases (or the design
could be improved), note this in the documentation.  In the absence of
such comments, the grader must assume that (a) you were not bright enough
to notice the error or (b) you figure the grader is not bright enough to
notice the error; in either case, it is not healthy for your point total.

Do NOT leave the documentation until last; do it as you write the program.
If your design changes, don't trash the corresponding documentation;
instead, add a note indicating why the design has changed.  Remember that
in assignments for which you will not be handing in hardcopy, the only
discussion that can possibly be seen by the grader are the comments in your
source code. 

Short comments at the ends of lines are usually inappropriate, except for:
        data declarations 
        maintenance notes 
        marking ends of blocks

Guide for paragraph-sized comments:
The comments should be at the level of the code's intent; that is, you should
say what gets done rather than how it gets done.  (E.g., some of the early
specification paragraphs in this file are good examples of the style of
documentation that should be in your program.)

Example 2-13 in the Foster text is a good starting point on which to build.
The file ~masc0000/CbyDiscovery/ch2/inout2.c is publicly available, as are
all the other programs in the Foster text.  (You must give credit for portions
of your program that are copied from other sources, so make sure there
is a reference to Foster in the documentation if you follow this template.)
I recommend you study the trick used to print all lowercase characters as
uppercase in the program in ~masc0000/CbyDiscovery/ch2/epp8.c , because
a similar trick will also be useful for some of the character manipulation
you must do in this assignment.  If you look at the ASCII table (look at
the more human-friendly base-10 representations this time), you'll see that
the difference between upper case and the corresponding lower case character
is always 32 (e.g., for 'z' and 'Z', the values are 122 and 90, and they differ
by 32).  Pages 22 and 23 of the lecture notes may help familiarize you with
character representations and their manipulations.

Other tips:
* Use white space to make the program readable.
* Use indentation to show the program's structure.
* Use names (for variables, functions, etc.) that are descriptive.
* Avoid useless comments: "w++; /* increment w */" is a useless comment --
instead, your documentation should explain what you're counting, and why
there is now an additional thing to be counted.
("w" is also a bad name for a variable; "Total" or "widgets_completed" or
"ColumnNumber" would be more reasonable.)

Students tend to neglect to document any "unexpected behavior" of their
programs.  If your p1 doesn't work right, and you don't say that, you'll
lose more points than if you explain the situations under which it fails.
(As panic sets in when the deadline approaches, try to remember that...)

WHAT TO HAND IN:
Nothing!  Your program will be automatically collected, tested, and printed for
you.  However: Make SURE that the directory is named One [the capitalization
must be exact] and the file is named p1.c, otherwise the program which
automatically compiles it and runs it on the test data will not be
able to find it (which would be a Very Bad Thing, earning you ZERO points
for the program).  Do not change the default permissions on the files;
they should remain unreadable to 'group' and 'other'.  Make a copy of
the directory and its contents if you wish to do further experimentation
with the program after the due date; leave the original untouched until
you receive a grade with which you are satisfied.

The autograder will collect your program, compile it, and perform some tests
on it.  The autograder might not assign a full numerical grade; instead, I may
have to print out the results, look them over and assign a grade, and eventually
I'll return the printouts to you in class, along with handwritten comments.

EXTRA CREDIT:
The file called ~/One/GradeEarly (note the odd capitalization) is intended
to signal that you have completed the project a week early, and wish to
take advantage of the extra credit reward.  The contents of the file are
immaterial; the autograder will only test for the existence of this file.
If the file has been created by the 110% deadline, your project will be
picked up for grading at that time (so no further changes to your code or
documentation will be possible).  Your score will be augmented by 10% (for
example, if you would have normally received 50% of the points, you will
instead qualify for 55% of the points possible).

