				Assignment 3
				   CS 320

Reread the Policy statement at the beginning of the class notes; you MUST
do your own work on all assignments and programs.  The file ~cs320/calendar will
contain all published deadlines, including occasional extra credit deadlines.

This assignment does not involve the computer; it is a purely paper-and-pencil
affair.  You will be producing a trace of a parse much like the 14 steps shown
on Page 202 of Sebesta, using the six productions of the grammar (bottom of
Page 199, top of Page 200) while referring to the parsing table on Page 200
(Figure 4.5).  Page 202 shows a parse trace for one particular string; in this
assignment, you will make a parse trace for a similar but DIFFERENT string.

Different students will be given different strings to parse (your particular
string will be sent to your edoras cssc account via email).  Make sure the
string you parse is the one I send YOU; you cannot get credit for this
assignment if you parse the wrong string.

Most students will get strings that have embedded parentheses; make sure you
parse all the characters of the entire string [that is, don't ignore any
parentheses!]  Remember that YOU have to add the '$' (EOF marker) to the
end of the string you are sent.

WHAT TO HAND IN:
A trace of the parse of YOUR particular assigned string, in the format
shown on Page 202.  That is, it should have three columns, showing the
stack contents, remaining input symbols, and corresponding action (including
the parenthetical GOTO[] designations).  This does not have to be typed;
your submission can be handwritten as long as it is legible.

Sanity checks: If you haven't ended in state 1 (where the lone 'accept' box
is located), or you have more tokens than just 'E' left on the stack, review
your work and find out where you went wrong.  [Our parse tree should begin
with the start symbol (E), so when we end, we should be at the 'top' of the
parse tree, since this is a bottom-up parser.]  It's easy to neglect writing
down the GOTO[] designations, so make sure you have one of those for every
Reduce operation in your trace.

REMEMBER to check the ~cs320/calendar file for the due date, and remember it is
due at the BEGINNING of class.  NO late homework accepted!
(I don't want people getting into traffic accidents racing to class,
so there are circumstances in which you can get around the 2:00pm cutoff.
If it's a bit after 2:00, the rules are:
You must fling your homework on the front table BEFORE taking your seat --
so don't be polite and wait till after class; I won't accept it that late.)

